---
title: Social.Coop's Organizing Circle Notes
description: notes and minutes per meeting with tasks on top 
tags: OC, meeting notes, 
lang: en
---

## Social.Coop's Organizing Circle Notes

References:
- notes: https://doc.anagora.org/social-coop-oc
- videoconference: https://jitsi.meet.coop/social-coop-oc

Current members:
- caitlin (FWG rep) @CaitlinWaddick
- Dan (TWG/CWG rep) @dphiffer
- Flan (TWG rep) @flancian
- Melissa (CWG rep) @ansate
- @pjw (at-large, starting Jan 2026)
- @loppear (at-large, starting Jan 2026)
- Ammar (at-large) @ammaratef45
- Kathe (at-large, ending Jan 2026) @ktoddbrown
- Marie (at-large, ending Jan 2026) @MarieVC
- eduardo m (at-large, ending mid-2026) @edumerco

## Tasks
+ [ ] @all, async: review and annotate our 2025 accomplishments to celebrate. 
+ [ ] Other/s? 

=======================================================

## $NEXT 2026-02-26 1500 UTC


## $NOW 2026-02-12 1500 UTC

Attendees: Caitlin, Melissa, Luke, Eduardo

Agenda
- Who is facilitating? who is taking notes? 
  - Caitlin, Luke will take notes
- Consent to the agenda: 
  - sensemaking 2026 budget
  - offboarding thankyous
  - onboarding summary for pjw
- Checkins
- WG Reports
- Closing: who is reminding next time, how are you leaving?

## 2026-01-29 1500 UTC

Attendees: Ammar, Melissa, Luke, Caitlin

Agenda
- Who is facilitating? who is taking notes?
    - Melissa will facilliatate. Ammar and Caitlin will take notes. 
- Consent to the agenda
- Checkin & intros (since we have a new member!)
- Welcoming new members 
    - allowing more volunteers into Zulip? (I'm for it, I think we keep a few channels locked but allow folks who want to participate)
        - Yes: continue to use Zulip. Melissa will write a wiki page that Loomio is the open, community-wide place to discuss governance. Zulip is the slightly secluded place for working group members to have discussions and some asynchronous work. Anyone on Social.Coop who is thinking about joining this work may join Zulip. 
    - Go over how we run oc meetings, how was last year and what are our goals this year (roughly)
        - We roughly follow sociocracy model in running our meetings.
        - A discussion round before each decision round
        - Caitlin proposes having a cheerleader™/meaning agenda item ownership/representative/champion, for each agenda item... it can be in the meeting minutes, or assigned, when we get to that item, the facilitator can ask, "who wants to champion this topic?""
        - draft agenda will be formed before the meeting by someone... by all of us: when we get the meeting reminder, then we post our agenda items to the Living Agenda document and review the forming agenda before the meeting, ideally. 
        - Every meeting begins with consent to the agenda.  
    - Assign someone to officially announce the next meeting. LUKE SAYS HE WILL DO IT!!  WOO-HOO!  He will announce via Zulip and tag all the people and post the meeting link and invite people to put their agenda items into this living document.
    - meeting recaps: no one wants to write it. Concern that people were not reading them.  
- onboarding/offboarding, in review 
    - Welcoming Luke: We got him into Zulip! Yaay! 
    - He needs a mentor. Caitlin will mentor 
    - The other new person is PJW (he/him). How to onboard and who will be his mentor- next meeting  
    - revisit offboarding at next meeting 
- wg report back: FWG/LWG, CWG, TWG 
    - TWG (Ammar reporting): met yesterday. Bonfire update to new version. TWG discussion: Do we want to test running a Bonfire instance? Flancian was not there: no update to alpha instance.  Conversation on adding to the character limit: the issue was dormant and they picked it back up.  ... FYI: Melissa lurks in the Matrix, where TWG hangs out. 
    - CWG: can get people to moderate. Moderators are trained and cover shifts. They expect to add new moderators. 2 new members attended the last meeting.  ... M. from the Hackathon may also join. Silver is in Australia makes it hard to have a meeting.  CWG members have not been attending meetings; thus, they moved the day and time to 3rd Fridays, 10 am Pacific time (18UTC)
    - FWG (Caitlin reporting): we didn't have an annual budget for the most part (OC would just approve the spending), 2025 had the first OC-approved budget (late in 2025). community contributions' main benefit (via participatory budgeting exercise) was to have more member engagement (that was a big success). 2026 budget is almost exactly the same as 2025, WGs can ask FWG to add things to the budget, including their stipend line items. let's add agenda item for next meeting to look at the budget together, as a sense-making exercise; then, at a February meeting: we can vote in an official capacity to approve the 2026 budget. Discussion about how to normalize stipends.
    - LWG (Caitlin reporting): members of LWG are not legal experts but have enough experience to bottom-line finding answers to legal questions. not sure if they met yet, Caitlin will ping Alex and Marie, for them to call a meeting and will announce it for OC in case someone wants to attend.
- closing
    - Who is sending a reminder and drafting agenda for next meeting. LUKE!
    - how are you leaving this call? 





## 2026-01-15 1500 UTC

Attendees:
- Ammar
- Melissa

sent a welcome DM to @loppear and @pjw


## 2026-01-01 ASYNC Meeting

### What did we accomplish in 2025?
1. Community Contributions
    - details of who we gave to?
2. December hackathon? https://wiki.social.coop/wiki/December_2025_Onboarding_Improvements
3. X many new members
4. started year at what Mastodon version, ended year at what Mastodon version
5. 


### Additional ASYNC items as people want


------
## 2025-12-18

Attendees:
    Eduardo, Ammar (notes), Dan, Marie, Melissa, Caitlin (facillitate), Flancian. , Flancian

Agenda:
    -- Check-ins: How are you feeing? What are you bringing into this space? 
      - https://feelingswheel.com/
      - bad dream
      - tired and done with this year, but happy to see comrades and celebrate a productive year
      - solidarity
      - a mix of looking forward and overwhelm?
      - quite angry, so much rage, work discipline issue
      - in pain from a health issue and causing anxiety and frustration, happy nontheless

[5 min] WG updates
  - FWG & LWG
    - Marie and Alex are joining yaaay!
    - Still working out onboarding new members and link between FWG and LWG
    - Andrew will leave the FWG and join LWG with Alex and Marie.
    - Proposal for getting paid for a project in the works.
    - Cait is stepping down from FWG and looking for replacement. 
    @edward@social.coop and @ depemig@social.coop as well as Kathe and Alex listed FWG as of interest in the volunteer form
    - Issues with Loomio when trying to make a sense check with full discussion:

[5 min] OC/FWG: sensemaking post on Loomio - OC/FWG: Sense check post to Loomio about Social Coop budget for 2026  https://www.loomio.com/p/EYwd7onD/help-social-coop-make-sense-of-the-proposed-2026-budget-what-can-we-do-together- 
[task item from Oct 23rd OC meeting: https://www.loomio.com/d/4yPdSMjK/organizing-circle-meeting-2025-october-23-1500-utc-]
  - Caitlin might create a new Loomio post for discussion and update both the post and the sense check to cross-link to each other.
  - 
-  TWG
  - Server activities - Major maintenance (it was a Friday); it went well! It leaves us in a good position to have a healthy  ... to do database maintenance with limited disc space (causing roadbumps)... we can go another year without hitting limits.  
  - Significant upgrade with 4.5 ... it introduces quote-toots ? 
  - New members!
  - Gabriel
  - Steve 
  - Ammar
  - "House cleaning/upkeep" in bug tracker to have our priorities clear and well-organized as we go into 2026
  - Bonfire (bonfire.social.coop) question(s) -- It has features that people prefer over Loomio.  It could complement Loomio as part of a transition; we could use both. Or, we could exit Loomio to use Bonfire. Urgency level: none!  
    - Edu: given that we're investing resources here, and might invest more, we should discuss and be open about what would be involved/why we would be doing this.
    - Edu: we could use it first in working groups... but now we have Zulip for that. We could discuss in January.
    - Caitlin: agree that we could have a group discuss this in January
    - Flancian: happy to take this and make sure we have some discussion forum in January.
    Question for TWG on upping the character limit: "slow but steady" progress, in the last two weeks ... work to be done to set up the alpha instance (with security) ... it will take some time. Flan will work on it again next year.  
-  CWG - no update now 
  - Melissa: the hackathon happened!


[10 min] getting new members here in January meetings + people moving from roles?
- Kathe will reach out to new people. 
- Caitlin will reach out to Kathe
(Meta: time check)
- Eduardo: some of us are ending our term -- ideally we'd optimize for having some overlap with new members.
  - But ideally we'd "cycle out" half the group at a time, which was the intention, although we all started at the same time because it was the first term.
  - Eduardo would personally like to cycle into the CWG, althogh could stay here if needed.
  - Caitlin: found the meeting notes from the last meeting. We mostly covered onboarding, but not offboarding. We said that Kathe and Marie would be cycling out, and later Eduardo?
  -- Link to Dec 4 meeting notes: https://www.loomio.com/d/FIOxlLnZ/organizing-circle-meeting-2025-december-4-1500-utc-
  - Idea: two year terms for the at-large members, with each year only half cycling, to "stagger" the term dates 
  - Flan and Caitlin would rotate out of the OC as TWG/FWG rep. Some other WG members rotation planned.
  - Proposals were: 
      - Share a Calendar for onboarding/offboarding.
      - Define mentors for new people. A current OC member will volunteer to one-on-one mentor a new at-large member. 
      - Use the kanban for some processes. https://share.mayfirst.org/apps/deck/board/1128
      - Would anyone like to write something down to recognize outgoing participants?
      - Eduardo: how can we think of a good flow between WGs and the OC? 
      - We have 7 people here. At large members rotate out on a schedule. The reps from the WGs rotate in and out at will. 
      - past idea/proposal (from Sociocracy principles): to have 2 reps from each WG... previously discussed: not practical  
        - Flancian: 2 reps from each WG sound great/like it could add stability
        - Flancian: could Eduardo stay up to 1 year more as per rules?
        - Yes
        - Eduardo: happy to stay if needed!
        - Ammar: would encourage you to rotate to the CWG if you want that
        - Ammar: UPDATE on the process this fall for onboarding the new at-large members: 
on the flow between OC and working groups. 1. first onboarding call where we went through bylaws/wgs was very well received. 2. from personal experience onboarding to the OC was improved by joining WG meetings/following their updates. Recommend we make all meetings easily accessible to new members by using and sharing a calendar.
    - Eduardo: would recommend we define a small questionnaire for people offboarding to help us learn socially/cooperatively from their experiences. It could have good ROI.
      - Caitlin: love that.
      - Marie: like the idea but been struggling with the last few months of the mandate because of lack of structure and over-reliance on the facilitator. Would suggest the offboarding process is decoupled from onboarding the new members.
      - Caitlin: maybe let's come up with the questions next meeting and we answer them offline?
      - Eduardo: we have had issues with syncing today.
      - Flan: For example we could use hedgedoc: https://doc.anagora.org/organizing-circle
      - On the time cross-referencing notes; Kathe also used to put together great summaries.
      - Let's revisit/discuss next time?
  [5 min] OC/TWG stipends for 2025 
- Caitlin's proposal on Zulip: The OC has 1,000 GBP budgeted for stipends in the 2025 budget.  https://socialcoop.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/511156-OC/topic/OC.20stipends.20for.20year.20ending.20December.2031.2C.202025/with/563666167
- Caitlin invited TWG to use their stipend budget for 2025 (before Dec 30, 2025).  TWG are figuring ours out, but we do intend to use it!
- other working groups 
how much has CWG asked for this year?   
- Line item budget for stipends for OC members: 1,000 GBP 
- Caitlin: propose 4 people divide it evenly 
- Ammar: propose that every OC member that was present during the year gets to choose one of three options: 1. accept the money (personally recommended), 2. donate it to social.coop, 3. return it to the OC pool.
- Eduardo: can we combine options, e.g. half-haf on donate and return to the pool?
- Caitlin: yes but let's keep it simple.
- Happy to do the simple thing.
- Let's vote?
- All in favour.
- Caitlin: please write down your name and your option (1 = accept, 2 = return to social.coop general budget, 3 = return to the OC pool).
- Marie: 2
- Ammar: 1
- Flan: 3
- Melissa: 1
- Eduardo: 1
- Dan: 1
- Caitlin: 1 

166.66 GBP for 1s I think?  (+1+1)

[15 min?] Celebrate year's accomplishments! (and post them to loomio?) 
- proposal: to do this work asynchronously on Zulip 
- proposal: do that async- When is our next meeting? 
Skipping the Jan 1st meeting. 
Next meeting is 17 January 2025 (all in agreement).

[5 min] Jan hackathon https://wiki.social.coop/wiki/January_2026_Hackathon
- put on loomio: melissa will handle
- server announcement
- Luma link: https://luma.com/04uq2wu6?tk=0zFBqL (to get a reminder)

[5 min] Next meeting - can we meet in jitsi.meet.coop and use a shared notes thing that dosn't disappear?
  - Proposal https://jitsi.meet.coop/organizing-circle and  https://doc.anagora.org/organizing-circle is available to use anytime it helps (or choose a different name after the last /) (please include social-coop in the name after the / )
  - Eduardo: we can use mayfirst instance as well.
  - Melissa: will work with the TWG on the urls and update the calendar entries!
  - Thank you!

- ¿big topic time? 
[5 min] Closing game with Ammar ... how are you feeling after 2025 with OC? 


