

- [[2022-05-20]]
  - [[tech group]] session on [[password store]]: https://git.coop/social.coop/tech/pass


- [[2022-05-13]]

    Attending: akshay neil noah (redoak) eduardo (flancian) nick will (datatitian)

    round the table catching up :)

    [neil] first time in one of the tech group meetings!

    post work on a Friday -- nice to be here!

    [noah] happy the group seems to be "revived"

    [akshay] like a Saturday for me due to 80% time :)

    [neil] +1 here, but not off today

    been doing it for a year

    [will] freelance, working four days a week

    Fridays are [[disco coop]] / passion projects

    Let's meet in [[immers space]] ;)

    [nick] here :)

    let's seed a potential agenda?

    [noah] what was discussed at the last meeting?

    https://anagora.org/social-coop-tech-group -> https://www.loomio.org/d/UwAeiBgE/tech-meeting-minutes

    [nick] handing over the keys, how to be able to disengage before the next meeting

    if we have root in social.coop, what else do we need to get full access to all resources?

    [nick] there's also the password repository, which is based on gpg keys

    [noah] adding people to the pass repo is maybe the one thing where we surely need nick the most

    [nick] can add Eduardo to the pass repo

    it requires re-encrypting with all keys

    need to find the notes on how to do this

    [akshay] is it worth storing in the repo itself how to do this?

    +1

    we are pretty confident all credentials are in the pass repo, at least in the past 2-3y everything has been there

    there is a lingering domain registration issue

    we need to look up the name of the person responsible

    [nick] enric duran (sp?)

    there was discussion of transferring

    -> let's find the loomio thread, there was a proposal for where to transfer to https://www.loomio.org/d/Jf5Wi4Ph/domain-expired-social-coop-down

    [noah] it would ideally be transferred to a collective entity?

    probably want to discuss with other working groups

    [akshay] do we keep track of what we have credentials for?

    [noah] no separate source except for the pass repo

    in short: 

    admin account in the instance

    hetzner

    digital ocean for static storage

    login for email aliases which is required for git access

    we could agree on a time slot and then do some coworking on the pass repo

    next week 2h earlier? 4pm London

    [nick] make sure you have an email alias asap so you can access the git repo so you can do, well, other stuff :)

    noah, nick, david have access

    welcome GiacomoSansoni!

    newbie here!

    don't know much about tech (yet)

    willing to learn

    [flancian] focus areas / learning exercises

    mastodon instance (currently on docker)

    who does moderation?

    there is a moderation group, [[community working group]] does it

    [neil] is there anything that the tech working group does with registrations?

    [noah] the wiki runs alongside the mastodon deployment and supports the process

    [flancian] why do we do it this way instead of letting people join (with approval) and then following up?

    [noah] there's the requirement of joining the open collective first, but there is potential for streamlining as long as we have energy in driving :)

    [flancian] interested, would like to try to bring this up as a possible improvement -- in particular if we want to make it easier to onboard/grow more

    [neil] there was discussion about improving the process in the strategy session

    [nick] there's only one field in registration and that was considered a blocker

    [akshay] it seems like mastodon in general could benefit from this

    +1

    backups and restores

    secondary server?

    [nick] there was some effort previously some time ago

    one of the complications was to try to bring up a new instance which isn't federating, which could mess up the fediverse

    there's a merge request in git

    nicks didn't reach agreement

    wu lee (sp?)

    new services

    has this been brought up?

    [noah] one of the old meeting minutes has ideas on this front: https://www.loomio.org/d/UwAeiBgE/tech-meeting-minutes/35

    the obstacle is procedural + organizational: something that enough people want, are willing to have some workload for

    [flancian] maintenance pending

    [flancian] engagement with other working groups

    -> could be related/linked to a solution to gender imbalance/diversity

    [neil] steps for onboarding new tech WG members

    might be linked to focus areas

    [flancian] documentation sources of truth, do we have too many? do we share enough with other working groups?


