---
description: notes and minutes per meeting with tasks on top 
tags: CWG, meeting notes, 
lang: en
---

## Social.Coop's Community Working Group Notes

References:
- calendar link: https://link.social.coop/calendar
- notes: https://doc.anagora.org/social-coop-cwg
- videoconference: https://jitsi.meet.coop/social-coop-cwg

## $NEXT 2026-03-20 1800 UTC ????


## 2026-02-20 1800 UTC

Attendees: Melissa, Hollie (facilitatin'), Calix (notes), Steve, Dan

### Agenda

- ~~ðŸ‡¨ðŸ‡¿ins~~
- should we combine Zulip #moderation-questions and #reports
- let's do the loomio vote for new CWG members
- helping with easy reports, as one can, is that a norm for us?
- prep for March hackathon
- moderation sched for March

### Notes

Woohoo longer post length ðŸŽ‰

#### should we combine Zulip #moderation-questions and #reports

M:
- moderation questions is unlocked, and could conceivably be for philosophical questions and abstract scenarios
- reports is locked and is about specific actions of specific people (everyone who's a moderator can see it)

M: Confusing in the past, but might be good to have them. So folks can say "what if..." in a separate, wider space. Important to keep reports locked. Especially if we're letting people join Zulip more openly cos they're interested.

H: Agree, nice to separate theory from specific questions about individual reports.

S: Learning the ropes - is #reports automated?
M: When someone wants to discuss a specific report.
S: Moderation questions is more "moderation: everything to do with it"?
M: Yes
S: Agree with Melissa then. Might have sensitive discussion about reports.

M: In conclusion: Do Nothingâ„¢

S: Was there a specific reason to merge them?
M: Don't think there was a strong argument.
H: Expect there would be an expectation from co-op members that reports are limited to mod team. Would be weird to invite "working-group-curious" people to see it.

#### let's do the loomio vote for new CWG members

M: Silver, Steve, Gilles, and Malaya (did I miss anyone?)
H: I can try to do it?
M: Or buddy up?

**ACTION Hollie & Melissa** Set us up Loomio votes for Silver, Steve, Gilles, Malaya

#### Helping with easy reports, as one can, is that a norm for us?

M: Especially as we're bringing on more mods, worth clarifying.
H: When I joined ~18 months ago, moderation was a lot more casual. People named for the week, maybe they were busy, not a lot of people on the team. So really normal that someone else had taken care of report. "Does that mean I did a bad job" -- feedback was, somebody was logged in, just did it. "I'm on the team and would help alleviate the load." For new folks: become more confident as folks are handling reports. Are we taking something away from new mods?
C: Definitely did feel weird for 3 reasons:
1. Felt like a bit of a scam during some on-call shifts where I got beaten to every single decision! But separate role: "on-call" is backstop establishing maximum response time.
2. Some actions taken by people who aren't taking on-call shifts, 
3. Decisions taken which I disagreed with

C: But ultimately seems fine, separate roles, just think we should document & inform people.

H: My experience, everyone has always been open to discussing decisions. Never had a situation where someone is trying to beat you into an opinion. Always benefits me to hear a different opinion.

S: Agreed with everything just said. And H's suggestion, might be helpful for newer people to take on moderating tasks, especially the easy ones. Better for me on my first time? Only comes up when somebody doing it for the first time. After hearing discussion, agree it should just be somewhere explicitly said, know it can happen, can expect it. Same thoughts as C & H. When you do grab a report, is there a way to say "I'm working on this"?

H: Yes, can assign report in Mastodon. When I notice that's been done, even if it's my week, I don't touch it. 2 things:
1. Severe ADHD, time is a fluid concept. Doing things when I see it is my way of being helpful. I will try to dive in less.
2. Let's put it in the notes that it can happen

C: Personally I definitely find it helpful when other people take actions! Please continue. Only suggestion is: maybe let's send a flare to CWG to not take actions during a new moderator's first/second shifts, so they get some practice. Also, to respond about disagreed-with actions: I really don't think it's our role to police correct use of hashtags. Steady stream of reports about people "misusing" #SilentSunday, there are no rules.

M: That was part of the rationale for writing up how moderation works, clarify we don't think we have a mandate 

H: I definitely take action against things which are spam.

C: "Here's a picture I took, here's where you could buy a print of it" = not spam? Unless we assume that #SilentSunday is a beautiful anticommercial decommodified spaceâ€¦ which it isn't

H: Do we want to make a note? Or address it with the next post?

D: I have marked spam from those in the past, but I would be fine ignoring them 

D: "is it spam" seems distinct from "is the hashtag used properly" but I do think two _could_ interact 

#### prep for March hackathon

M: Sunday March 22nd. Will make another wiki page. Less of a clear idea of goals. Loomio announcement. Bunch of nice people come hang out last time. We've had more ideas than people so far.

**ACTION Hollie & Melissa** Make A Loomio Post about the hackathon

#### moderation sched for March

> Feb 2 - dan
> Feb 9 - Matt & Gilles
> Feb 16 - calix & Steve
> Feb 23 - sam

M: Same order? Let Matt off the hook cos he's not here? Steve wanna do an independent one?
S: Didn't do any shadowing this week. But if y'all think I can handle it I'll take a week!
M: Good to shadow someone?
H: I'm free, could be backup.
D: first two weeks of March are bad for me 
S: I'll shadow someone, play it safe, no reason to rush
C: Didn't handle any reports this week ðŸ™ƒ But I should have reached out about new registrations which I did handle, whoops.
H: Good to leave Matt, he seems pretty busy.
M: Sam can take one, has been happy to

**ACTION Melissa** DM Sam to check availability

March 2: Hollie & Steve
March 9: Calix
March 16: Sam
March 23: Dan
March 30: (Hollie and whomever wants to help?)

**ACTION Calix** add these to The Calendar once Sam confirms

#### Next meeting



## 2026-02-02 special welcome Malaya edition



## 2026-01-16 1700 UTC

Attendees
- Melissa
- Gilles
- Steve
- Matt
- (a late) Calix

Dan had a conflict, but is fine being on the moderator rotation wherever we need him
Django can't do working hours meetings or moderation, settling in to new job (just to be aware)

KeyCloak instance is our future happiness for SSO - it is what we use for the wiki
is deployed using co-op cloud 

next meeting:
- Calix, can we meet an hour earlier or later
- let's try an hour later next month - AGREED 2/20 18:00 UTC

calendaring:
- google calendar not updating from next cloud as expected (should update every 12 hours), annoying for getting this meetings
- have some ideas for making this work

Hackathon Jan 24th with CoSocial.ca
https://wiki.social.coop/wiki/January_2026_Hackathon

Moderator Schedule

Moderation shadowing - add to schedule
Feb 2 - dan
Feb 9 - Matt & Gilles
Feb 16 - calix & Steve
Feb 23 - sam

(calix added it to The Calendar)

previous round was
1. dan
2. django + hollie
3. calix
4. sam

Zulip invite for new members
-done

Bonfire
- we have a test/experimental social.coop bonfire instance
- TWG wants CWG to manage memberships and moderation
- we don't have any access or documentation on how to do either of those
- need to make it abundantly clear that this is test server/not our main offering
- may want to direct to an open instance, if such exists
- if we do want to moderate, we need to have a plan for what the limits are and how to enforce them

-  https://socialcoop.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/511155-CWG/topic/Bonfire/with/562162225

Issues




